README.md, before:

# FF_SmsServer
ESP8266/A6-GA6 SMS server with HTTP/MQTT/Serial interfaces

## What's for?
This code implements an SMS gateway, based on ESP8266 and A6/GA6 GSM modem chip (other may work too).

Messages to send are read on Serial and/or MQTT and/or HTTP.

Received SMS from restricted phone numbers are pushed to Serial and/or MQTT. With associated examples:
- it's possible to execute bash commands on remote Unix nodes,
- as well as reading/changing state of Domoticz devices (through https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_WebServerDomoticz)

It may have an external relay/NPN to power cycle and reset GSM chip, or a direct connection to modem's reset pin.

It may also have external watchdog circuit (https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_Watchdog being a good idea).

It uses FF_WebServer (https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_WebServer) to implement a fully asynchronous Web server with:
- MQTT connection
- Arduino and Web OTA
- local file system to host user and server files
- file and/or browser based settings
- full file editor/upload/download
- optional telnet or serial or MQTT debug commands
- optional serial and/or syslog trace
- optional external hardware watchdog
- optional Domoticz connectivity

Used ESP8266 PIN:
- D1 connected on isolation relay or A6 reset pin (optional)
- D4 connected to hardware watchdog trigger pin (optional)
- D5 connected on A6 U_RX PIN
- D6 connected on A6 U_TX PIN

## Prerequisites

Can be used directly with Arduino IDE or PlatformIO.

The following libraries are used:
- https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_Trace
- https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_WebServer
- https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_Interval
- https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_A6lib
- https://github.com/me-no-dev/ESPAsyncTCP
- https://github.com/gmag11/NtpClient
- https://github.com/me-no-dev/ESPAsyncWebServer
- https://github.com/bblanchon/ArduinoJson
- https://github.com/arcao/Syslog
- https://github.com/marvinroger/async-mqtt-client
- https://github.com/mgaman/PDUlib
- https://github.com/joaolopesf/RemoteDebug@2.1.2

## Installation

Clone repository somewhere on your disk.
```
cd [where_you_want_to_install_it]
git clone https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_SmsServer.git FF_SmsServer
```

## Update

Go to code folder and pull new version:
```
cd [where_you_installed_FF_SmsServer}
git pull
```

Note: if you did any changes to files and `git pull` command doesn't work for you anymore, you could stash all local changes using:
```
git stash
```
or
```
git checkout [modified file]
```

Warning: as files in data folder should be downloaded on ESP file system, it may be a good idea to check if some of them have been changed be a new version, to update them on your ESP.

Remind also that config.json and userconfig.json are specific to your installation. Don't forget to download them from your ESP before making a global file system upload.

## Documentation

Documentation could be built using doxygen, either using makedoc.sh (for Linux) or makedoc.bat (for Windows), or running
```
doxygen doxyfile
```

HTML and RTF versions will then be available in `documentation` folder.

## How to send a SMS?

You may send a SMS:
- making an HTTP request at `http://[smsserver name or ip]/rest/send&number=[phone number]&message=[message to send]`. As this is an HTTP request, elements have to be escaped as usual (i.e replace spaces by +, special characters by their equivalents).
- sending `{"number":"[phone number of target]", "message":"[Message to send outside]"}` to  to MQTT topic `mqttGetTopic` (probably something like `smsServer/toSend`)
- sending messages like `{"number":"[phone number of target]", "message":"[Message to send outside]"}` to Serial. Answer format will be `{"status":"[submission status]"}`.

## How to get a SMS?
- subscribing to MQTT `mqttSendTopic` (probably something like `smsServer/received`). Received message format is `{"number":"[phone number of sender]", "date":"[receive date]", "message":"[Message sent to SMS server]"}`.
- scanning Serial for messages like `{"number":"[phone number of sender]", "date":"[receive date]", "message":"[Message sent to SMS server]"}`

## Parameters at compile time

The following parameters are used at compile time:
- ISOLATION_RELAY_PIN: (default=D1) ESP8266 pin where 5V isolation relay is connected to (don't define it if not used)
- RELAY_ON: (default=HIGH) Level to set 5V relay on/reset PIN active (useless if ISOLATION_RELAY_PIN not defined)
- RELAY_OFF: (default=LOW) Level to set 5V relay off/reset PIN inactive (useless if ISOLATION_RELAY_PIN not defined)
- ISOLATION_TIME: (default 2000) Time (ms) to keep A6 powered off/reset (useless if ISOLATION_RELAY_PIN not defined)
- MAX_RESTART: (default 10) Reset CPU after this count of modem restart
- PRINT_RECEIVED_SMS_ON_SERIAL: received SMS are also printed on Serial
- SEND_SMS_FROM_SERIAL: scan Serial for SMS to be sent

In addition, the following parameters can be defined for FF_WebServer:
- REMOTE_DEBUG: (default=defined) Enable telnet remote debug (optional)
- SERIAL_DEBUG: (default=defined) Enable serial debug (optional, only if REMOTE_DEBUG is disabled)
- SERIAL_COMMAND_PREFIX: (default=no defined) Prefix of debug commands given on Serial (i.e. `command:`). No commands are allowed on Serial if not defined
- HARDWARE_WATCHDOG_PIN: (default=D4) Enable watchdog external circuit on D4 (optional)
- HARDWARE_WATCHDOG_ON_DELAY: (default=5000) Define watchdog level on delay (in ms)
- HARDWARE_WATCHDOG_OFF_DELAY: (default=1) Define watchdog level off delay (in ms)
- FF_TRACE_KEEP_ALIVE: (default=5 * 60 * 1000) Trace keep alive timer (optional)
- FF_TRACE_USE_SYSLOG: (default=defined) Send trace messages on Syslog (optional)
- FF_TRACE_USE_SERIAL: (default=defined) Send trace messages on Serial (optional)
- INCLUDE_DOMOTICZ:(default=defined) Include Domoticz support (optional)
- CONNECTION_LED: (default=-1) Connection LED pin, -1 to disable
- AP_ENABLE_BUTTON: (default=-1) Button pin to enable AP during startup for configuration, -1 to disable
- AP_ENABLE_TIMEOUT: (default=240) If the device can not connect to WiFi it will switch to AP mode after this time (Seconds, max 255),  -1 to disable
- DEBUG_FF_WEBSERVER: (default=defined) Enable internal FF_WebServer debug
- FF_DISABLE_DEFAULT_TRACE: (default=not defined) Disable default trace callback
- FF_TRACE_USE_SYSLOG: (default=defined) SYSLOG to be used for trace

## Parameters defined at run time

The following parameters can be defined, either in json files before loading LittleFS file system, or through internal http server.

### In config.json:
- ssid: Wifi SSID to connect to
- pass: Wifi key
- ip: this node's fix IP address (useless if DHCP is true)
- netmask: this node's netmask (useless if DHCP is true)
- gateway: this node's IP gateway (useless if DHCP is true)
- dns: this node's DHCP server (useless if DHCP is true)
- dhcp: use DHCP if true, fix IP address else
- ntp: NTP server to use
- NTPperiod: interval between two NTP updates (in minutes)
- timeZone: NTP time zone (use internal HTTP server to set)
- daylight: true if DST is used
- deviceName: this node name

### In userconfig.json:
- MQTTClientID: MQTT client ID, used during connection to MQTT
- MQTTUser: User to connect to MQTT server
- MQTTPass: Password to connect to MQTT server
- MQTTTopic: base MQTT topic, used to set LWT topic of SMS server
- MQTTCommandTopic: topic to read debug commands to be executed
- MQTTHost: MQTT server to connect to
- MQTTPort: MQTT port to connect to
- MQTTInterval: Domoticz update interval (useless)
- SyslogServer: syslog server to use (empty if not to be used)
- SyslogPort: syslog port to use (empty if not to be used)
- mqttSendTopic: MQTT topic used by SMS server to write external received SMS to
- mqttGetTopic: MQTT topic used by SMS server to read SMS messages to send external destination
- mqttLwtTopic: root MQTT last will topic to to read application status
- allowedNumbers: allowed senders phone numbers, comma separated

## Available URLs

WebServer answers to the following URLs. If authentication is turned on, some of them needs user to be authenticated before being served.

### FF_SmsServer URLs
- /rest/params=&number=01234567&message=my+test+message: sends a SMS (number is phone number, message is ... message)
- /rest/send=&number=01234567&message=my+test+message: same as above
- /rest/listening: returns list of connected applications

### FF_WebServer URLs
- /list?dir=/ -> list file system content
- /edit -> load editor (GET) , create file (PUT), delete file (DELETE)
- /admin/generalvalues -> return deviceName and userVersion in json format
- /admin/values -> return values to be loaded in index.html and indexuser.html
- /admin/connectionstate -> return connection state
- /admin/infovalues -> return network info data
- /admin/ntpvalues -> return ntp data
- /scan -> return wifi network scan data
- /admin/restart -> restart ESP
- /admin/wwwauth -> ask for authentication
- /admin -> return admin.html contents
- /update/updatepossible
- /setmd5 -> set MD5 OTA file value
- /update -> update system with OTA file
- /rconfig (GET) -> get configuration data
- /pconfig (POST) -> set configuration data
- /rest -> activate a rest request to get some (user's) values (*)
- /rest/values -> return values to be loaded in index.html and index_user.html (*)
- /json -> activate a rest request to get some (user's) values (*)
- /post -> activate a post request to set some (user's) values (*)

## Debug commands

Debug commands are available to help understanding what happens, and may be a good starting point to help troubleshooting.

Debug output is available on Telnet, Serial and Syslog. Note that settings can disable some of these outputs.

### Access
Debug is available through:
- Telnet: connect with a telnet tool on ESP's port 23, and strike commands on keyboard
- MQTT: send the raw command to mqttCommandTopic (don't set the retain flag unless you want the command to be executed at each ESP restart)
- Serial: send the command on Serial, prefixing it by SERIAL_COMMAND_PREFIX (i.e. `command:vars`)

### Commands
The following commands are allowed:
- ? or h: display these help of commands
- m: display memory available
- v: set debug level to verbose
- d: set debug level to debug
- i: set debug level to info
- w: set debug level to warning
- e: set debug level to errors
- s: set debug silence on/off
- cpu80 : ESP8266 CPU at 80MHz
- cpu160: ESP8266 CPU at 160MHz
- reset: reset the ESP8266
- vars: dump standard variables
- user: dump user variables
- debug: toggle debug flag
- trace: toggle trace flag
- a6debug: toggle A6 modem debug flag
- a6trace: toggle A6 modem trace flag
- run: toggle A6 modem run flag
- restart: restart A6 modem
- AT or at: send AT command
- >: send command without AT prefix
- eof: send EOF

## MQTT topics

The following MQTT topics are used:

### MQTTTopic

Base MQTT topic, used to write LWT topic of SMS server
For example: `smsServer`
LWT format: when SMS server active: `{"state":"up","version":"[SMS server version],[FF_WebServer version]"}` , when down: `{"state":"down"}`

### mqttSendTopic

MQTT topic used by SMS server to write received SMS to
For example: `smsServer/received`
Format: `{"number":"[phone number of sender]", "date":"[receive date"], "message":"[Message sent to SMS server]"}`

### mqttGetTopic

MQTT topic used by SMS server to read SMS messages to send to external destination
For example: `smsServer/toSend`
Format: `{"number":"[phone number to send message to]", "message":"[Message to send]"}`

### mqttLwtTopic

Root MQTT last will topic to to read application status
For example: `smsServer/LWT` (will be followed by node/application name, i.e. `smsServer/LWT/myNode`)
Format: `{"state":"[State of node/application]"}`, probably "up" or "down", displayed on main Web server page, and returned to answer of `/rest/listening` request

### mqttCommandTopic

MQTT topic to read debug commands to be executed
For example: `smsServer/command`
Format: `[Command to be executed]` List of available commands can be returned sending "?" or "h" command

## Associated files

Here's list of associated files

### examples/readSms.py

This example reads SMS and send them back to receiver, prefixing them with "Received :".
Basically useless, but a good starting point to be used as example for your own code.

### examples/smsHandler.py

Reads received SMS through MQTT, to isolate messages starting with this node name. 
When found, rest of message is executed as OS local command.
Result, output and errors are then sent back by mail.
If answer is shorter than 70 characters, it will be also sent back by SMS.
Else result code will be sent back to sender.
Traces are kept in a log file, rotated each week.

MQTT and mail settings are to be set into file before running it, probably as a service.

#### examples/smsHandler.service

Service definition for examples/smsHandler.py.

#### show to install smsHandler.service
- copy smsHandler.service and smsServer.py [where ever you want]
- cd [where ever you want]
- chmod +x *.py
- nano smsServer.service
	- locate `User=` line and replace `pi` by user you want to run smsServer.service
	- locate `ExecStart=` line and replace `/home/pi` by location where you installed smsServer.service
	- save modified file
- sudo mv smsServer.service /lib/systemd/system/
- sudo chmod 644 /lib/systemd/system/smsServer.service
- sudo systemctl enable smsServer.service
- sudo systemctl start smsServer.service

### examples/hardwareImplementation

Contains a schema of a full implementation, with ESP8266, A6/GA6 modem, ATtiby 85 external watchdog and Arduino Nano as IO extender.

Contains also a pin mapping on a 7 x 9 cm PCB.

Commit message:

Add SmsServerTest.py to check (and restart if required) SMS server

README.md, after:

# FF_SmsServer
ESP8266/A6-GA6 SMS server with HTTP/MQTT/Serial interfaces

## What's for?
This code implements an SMS gateway, based on ESP8266 and A6/GA6 GSM modem chip (other may work too).

Messages to send are read on Serial and/or MQTT and/or HTTP.

Received SMS from restricted phone numbers are pushed to Serial and/or MQTT. With associated examples:
- it's possible to execute bash commands on remote Unix nodes,
- as well as reading/changing state of Domoticz devices (through https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_WebServerDomoticz)

It may have an external relay/NPN to power cycle and reset GSM chip, or a direct connection to modem's reset pin.

It may also have external watchdog circuit (https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_Watchdog being a good idea).

It uses FF_WebServer (https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_WebServer) to implement a fully asynchronous Web server with:
- MQTT connection
- Arduino and Web OTA
- local file system to host user and server files
- file and/or browser based settings
- full file editor/upload/download
- optional telnet or serial or MQTT debug commands
- optional serial and/or syslog trace
- optional external hardware watchdog
- optional Domoticz connectivity

Used ESP8266 PIN:
- D1 connected on isolation relay or A6 reset pin (optional)
- D4 connected to hardware watchdog trigger pin (optional)
- D5 connected on A6 U_RX PIN
- D6 connected on A6 U_TX PIN

## Prerequisites

Can be used directly with Arduino IDE or PlatformIO.

The following libraries are used:
- https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_Trace
- https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_WebServer
- https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_Interval
- https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_A6lib
- https://github.com/me-no-dev/ESPAsyncTCP
- https://github.com/gmag11/NtpClient
- https://github.com/me-no-dev/ESPAsyncWebServer
- https://github.com/bblanchon/ArduinoJson
- https://github.com/arcao/Syslog
- https://github.com/marvinroger/async-mqtt-client
- https://github.com/mgaman/PDUlib
- https://github.com/joaolopesf/RemoteDebug@2.1.2

## Installation

Clone repository somewhere on your disk.
```
cd [where_you_want_to_install_it]
git clone https://github.com/FlyingDomotic/FF_SmsServer.git FF_SmsServer
```

## Update

Go to code folder and pull new version:
```
cd [where_you_installed_FF_SmsServer}
git pull
```

Note: if you did any changes to files and `git pull` command doesn't work for you anymore, you could stash all local changes using:
```
git stash
```
or
```
git checkout [modified file]
```

Warning: as files in data folder should be downloaded on ESP file system, it may be a good idea to check if some of them have been changed be a new version, to update them on your ESP.

Remind also that config.json and userconfig.json are specific to your installation. Don't forget to download them from your ESP before making a global file system upload.

## Documentation

Documentation could be built using doxygen, either using makedoc.sh (for Linux) or makedoc.bat (for Windows), or running
```
doxygen doxyfile
```

HTML and RTF versions will then be available in `documentation` folder.

## How to send a SMS?

You may send a SMS:
- making an HTTP request at `http://[smsserver name or ip]/rest/send&number=[phone number]&message=[message to send]`. As this is an HTTP request, elements have to be escaped as usual (i.e replace spaces by +, special characters by their equivalents).
- sending `{"number":"[phone number of target]", "message":"[Message to send outside]"}` to  to MQTT topic `mqttGetTopic` (probably something like `smsServer/toSend`)
- sending messages like `{"number":"[phone number of target]", "message":"[Message to send outside]"}` to Serial. Answer format will be `{"status":"[submission status]"}`.

## How to get a SMS?
- subscribing to MQTT `mqttSendTopic` (probably something like `smsServer/received`). Received message format is `{"number":"[phone number of sender]", "date":"[receive date]", "message":"[Message sent to SMS server]"}`.
- scanning Serial for messages like `{"number":"[phone number of sender]", "date":"[receive date]", "message":"[Message sent to SMS server]"}`

## Parameters at compile time

The following parameters are used at compile time:
- ISOLATION_RELAY_PIN: (default=D1) ESP8266 pin where 5V isolation relay is connected to (don't define it if not used)
- RELAY_ON: (default=HIGH) Level to set 5V relay on/reset PIN active (useless if ISOLATION_RELAY_PIN not defined)
- RELAY_OFF: (default=LOW) Level to set 5V relay off/reset PIN inactive (useless if ISOLATION_RELAY_PIN not defined)
- ISOLATION_TIME: (default 2000) Time (ms) to keep A6 powered off/reset (useless if ISOLATION_RELAY_PIN not defined)
- MAX_RESTART: (default 10) Reset CPU after this count of modem restart
- PRINT_RECEIVED_SMS_ON_SERIAL: received SMS are also printed on Serial
- SEND_SMS_FROM_SERIAL: scan Serial for SMS to be sent

In addition, the following parameters can be defined for FF_WebServer:
- REMOTE_DEBUG: (default=defined) Enable telnet remote debug (optional)
- SERIAL_DEBUG: (default=defined) Enable serial debug (optional, only if REMOTE_DEBUG is disabled)
- SERIAL_COMMAND_PREFIX: (default=no defined) Prefix of debug commands given on Serial (i.e. `command:`). No commands are allowed on Serial if not defined
- HARDWARE_WATCHDOG_PIN: (default=D4) Enable watchdog external circuit on D4 (optional)
- HARDWARE_WATCHDOG_ON_DELAY: (default=5000) Define watchdog level on delay (in ms)
- HARDWARE_WATCHDOG_OFF_DELAY: (default=1) Define watchdog level off delay (in ms)
- FF_TRACE_KEEP_ALIVE: (default=5 * 60 * 1000) Trace keep alive timer (optional)
- FF_TRACE_USE_SYSLOG: (default=defined) Send trace messages on Syslog (optional)
- FF_TRACE_USE_SERIAL: (default=defined) Send trace messages on Serial (optional)
- INCLUDE_DOMOTICZ:(default=defined) Include Domoticz support (optional)
- CONNECTION_LED: (default=-1) Connection LED pin, -1 to disable
- AP_ENABLE_BUTTON: (default=-1) Button pin to enable AP during startup for configuration, -1 to disable
- AP_ENABLE_TIMEOUT: (default=240) If the device can not connect to WiFi it will switch to AP mode after this time (Seconds, max 255),  -1 to disable
- DEBUG_FF_WEBSERVER: (default=defined) Enable internal FF_WebServer debug
- FF_DISABLE_DEFAULT_TRACE: (default=not defined) Disable default trace callback
- FF_TRACE_USE_SYSLOG: (default=defined) SYSLOG to be used for trace

## Parameters defined at run time

The following parameters can be defined, either in json files before loading LittleFS file system, or through internal http server.

### In config.json:
- ssid: Wifi SSID to connect to
- pass: Wifi key
- ip: this node's fix IP address (useless if DHCP is true)
- netmask: this node's netmask (useless if DHCP is true)
- gateway: this node's IP gateway (useless if DHCP is true)
- dns: this node's DHCP server (useless if DHCP is true)
- dhcp: use DHCP if true, fix IP address else
- ntp: NTP server to use
- NTPperiod: interval between two NTP updates (in minutes)
- timeZone: NTP time zone (use internal HTTP server to set)
- daylight: true if DST is used
- deviceName: this node name

### In userconfig.json:
- MQTTClientID: MQTT client ID, used during connection to MQTT
- MQTTUser: User to connect to MQTT server
- MQTTPass: Password to connect to MQTT server
- MQTTTopic: base MQTT topic, used to set LWT topic of SMS server
- MQTTCommandTopic: topic to read debug commands to be executed
- MQTTHost: MQTT server to connect to
- MQTTPort: MQTT port to connect to
- MQTTInterval: Domoticz update interval (useless)
- SyslogServer: syslog server to use (empty if not to be used)
- SyslogPort: syslog port to use (empty if not to be used)
- mqttSendTopic: MQTT topic used by SMS server to write external received SMS to
- mqttGetTopic: MQTT topic used by SMS server to read SMS messages to send external destination
- mqttLwtTopic: root MQTT last will topic to to read application status
- allowedNumbers: allowed senders phone numbers, comma separated

## Available URLs

WebServer answers to the following URLs. If authentication is turned on, some of them needs user to be authenticated before being served.

### FF_SmsServer URLs
- /rest/params=&number=01234567&message=my+test+message: sends a SMS (number is phone number, message is ... message)
- /rest/send=&number=01234567&message=my+test+message: same as above
- /rest/listening: returns list of connected applications

### FF_WebServer URLs
- /list?dir=/ -> list file system content
- /edit -> load editor (GET) , create file (PUT), delete file (DELETE)
- /admin/generalvalues -> return deviceName and userVersion in json format
- /admin/values -> return values to be loaded in index.html and indexuser.html
- /admin/connectionstate -> return connection state
- /admin/infovalues -> return network info data
- /admin/ntpvalues -> return ntp data
- /scan -> return wifi network scan data
- /admin/restart -> restart ESP
- /admin/wwwauth -> ask for authentication
- /admin -> return admin.html contents
- /update/updatepossible
- /setmd5 -> set MD5 OTA file value
- /update -> update system with OTA file
- /rconfig (GET) -> get configuration data
- /pconfig (POST) -> set configuration data
- /rest -> activate a rest request to get some (user's) values (*)
- /rest/values -> return values to be loaded in index.html and index_user.html (*)
- /json -> activate a rest request to get some (user's) values (*)
- /post -> activate a post request to set some (user's) values (*)

## Debug commands

Debug commands are available to help understanding what happens, and may be a good starting point to help troubleshooting.

Debug output is available on Telnet, Serial and Syslog. Note that settings can disable some of these outputs.

### Access
Debug is available through:
- Telnet: connect with a telnet tool on ESP's port 23, and strike commands on keyboard
- MQTT: send the raw command to mqttCommandTopic (don't set the retain flag unless you want the command to be executed at each ESP restart)
- Serial: send the command on Serial, prefixing it by SERIAL_COMMAND_PREFIX (i.e. `command:vars`)

### Commands
The following commands are allowed:
- ? or h: display these help of commands
- m: display memory available
- v: set debug level to verbose
- d: set debug level to debug
- i: set debug level to info
- w: set debug level to warning
- e: set debug level to errors
- s: set debug silence on/off
- cpu80 : ESP8266 CPU at 80MHz
- cpu160: ESP8266 CPU at 160MHz
- reset: reset the ESP8266
- vars: dump standard variables
- user: dump user variables
- debug: toggle debug flag
- trace: toggle trace flag
- a6debug: toggle A6 modem debug flag
- a6trace: toggle A6 modem trace flag
- run: toggle A6 modem run flag
- restart: restart A6 modem
- AT or at: send AT command
- >: send command without AT prefix
- eof: send EOF

## MQTT topics

The following MQTT topics are used:

### MQTTTopic

Base MQTT topic, used to write LWT topic of SMS server
For example: `smsServer`
LWT format: when SMS server active: `{"state":"up","version":"[SMS server version],[FF_WebServer version]"}` , when down: `{"state":"down"}`

### mqttSendTopic

MQTT topic used by SMS server to write received SMS to
For example: `smsServer/received`
Format: `{"number":"[phone number of sender]", "date":"[receive date"], "message":"[Message sent to SMS server]"}`

### mqttGetTopic

MQTT topic used by SMS server to read SMS messages to send to external destination
For example: `smsServer/toSend`
Format: `{"number":"[phone number to send message to]", "message":"[Message to send]"}`

### mqttLwtTopic

Root MQTT last will topic to to read application status
For example: `smsServer/LWT` (will be followed by node/application name, i.e. `smsServer/LWT/myNode`)
Format: `{"state":"[State of node/application]"}`, probably "up" or "down", displayed on main Web server page, and returned to answer of `/rest/listening` request

### mqttCommandTopic

MQTT topic to read debug commands to be executed
For example: `smsServer/command`
Format: `[Command to be executed]` List of available commands can be returned sending "?" or "h" command

## Associated files

Here's list of associated files

### examples/readSms.py

This example reads SMS and send them back to receiver, prefixing them with "Received :".
Basically useless, but a good starting point to be used as example for your own code.

### examples/smsHandler.py

Reads received SMS through MQTT, to isolate messages starting with this node name. 
When found, rest of message is executed as OS local command.
Result, output and errors are then sent back by mail.
If answer is shorter than 70 characters, it will be also sent back by SMS.
Else result code will be sent back to sender.
Traces are kept in a log file, rotated each week.

MQTT and mail settings are to be set into file before running it, probably as a service.

#### examples/smsHandler.service

Service definition for examples/smsHandler.py.

#### How to install smsHandler.service
- copy smsHandler.service and smsServer.py [where ever you want]
- cd [where ever you want]
- chmod +x *.py
- nano smsServer.service
	- locate `User=` line and replace `pi` by user you want to run smsServer.service
	- locate `ExecStart=` line and replace `/home/pi` by location where you installed smsServer.service
	- save modified file
- sudo mv smsServer.service /lib/systemd/system/
- sudo chmod 644 /lib/systemd/system/smsServer.service
- sudo systemctl enable smsServer.service
- sudo systemctl start smsServer.service

### examples/hardwareImplementation

Contains a schema of a full implementation, with ESP8266, A6/GA6 modem, ATtiby 85 external watchdog and Arduino Nano as IO extender.

Contains also a pin mapping on a 7 x 9 cm PCB.

### examples/smsServerTest.py
Check if SMS server is working correctly. It sends an SMS (using SMS server) to itself, and checks if it receive it back within a minute. If not, it sends a mail with error, and if smsServerRestartUrl is defined, sends a restart to SMS server.

### examples/smsServerTest.json
JSON configuration file for examples/smsServerTest.py. Contains the following lines:
- "mqttServer": IP address or name of MQTT server
- "mqttPort": Port number of MQTT server (often 1883)
- "mqttUser": Username to use with MQTT server (or empty if no username needed)
- "mqttPassword": Password of MQTT server (or empty if no password needed)
- "mqttReceiveTopic": SMS server receive topic (default to "smsServer/received")
- "mqttSendTopic": SMS server send topic (default to "smsServer/toSend")
- "mailSender": mail address of sender/receiver 
- "mailServer": IP address or name of mail server
- "smsServerNumber": SMS server phone number. Note that this number should be in authorized phone list in SMS server parameters
- "smsServerRestartUrl": SMS server restart URL (like "http://<IP address or name of SMS server>/admin/restart") or empty, if no restarted requested.
